Question,Answer
What does CNICA stand for in the context of these rules?,CNICA stands for Council for National and International Commercial Arbitration.
When do the CNICA Rules of ODR come into effect?,The CNICA Rules of ODR come into effect from 01.01.2023.
What is the definition of "Address" according to the CNICA Rules of ODR?,"An ""Address"" means electronic mail address, mobile number, or such other electronic addresses pertaining to electronic modes of communication which is approved by the CNICA ODR Portal."
Who is considered an "Arbitrator" under these rules?,"An ""Arbitrator"" refers to a person who fulfils qualifications as laid down from time to time under the statute, is computer-savvy, possesses knowledge in law and practice, has a high sense of professional ethics, and/or is capable of entering independent and unbiased decisions."
What is the "Juridical Seat" for disputes agreed to be resolved under CNICA Rules of ODR?,The Juridical Seat shall be Chennai situated in the State of Tamil Nadu, India.
What does "Log in" mean in the context of these rules?,"""Log in"" means the process by which the Claimant, Respondent(s), and Arbitrator enter into the CNICA ODR Portal to initiate and continue their online arbitration process using the credentials verified in the 'Sign in' process."
What is the CNICA ODR Portal web address?,The CNICA ODR Portal web address is www.cnica-odr.com.
In what language should all communications be directed to the CNICA ODR Portal?,All communications should be directed to the CNICA ODR Portal in English.
How long does the claimant have to submit the Statement of Claim (SoC) after the arbitrator accepts the appointment?,The Statement of Claim (SoC) shall be submitted within 10 days from the date of the arbitrator accepting his appointment in the CNICA ODR Portal.
What is the time limit for submitting the Statement of Defense (SoD)?,"The Statement of Defense must be submitted via the CNICA ODR Portal within 10 days of uploading of the Statement of Claim (SoC)."
How many days does a party have to submit a Statement of Rejoinder (SoR)?,The Statement of Rejoinder (SoR) must be submitted in the CNICA ODR Portal within 7 days of uploading of the Statement of Defense (SoD).
What is the maximum extension time that can be granted for submitting various statements?,The maximum extension that can be granted is 5 days.
How long does an arbitrator have to submit the statement of acceptance and disclosures after being appointed?,The arbitrator shall submit the statement of acceptance and disclosures within 3 days from sending the communication of the appointment.
Under what circumstances can an arbitrator be disqualified?,"An arbitrator can be disqualified if circumstances exist that create a conflict of interest or cause the Arbitrator to be unfair and biased, including personal bias, having served as an attorney to any party, having a direct financial interest in the matter, or being related to a party in the proceeding."
Is there provision for in-person hearings in the CNICA ODR process?,"Generally, there shall be no in-person hearing unless the arbitrator determines, on a specific request made by either party, that an exceptional circumstance warrants it. Such hearings may be conducted virtually or physically at the arbitrator's discretion."
Within what timeframe should the arbitrator pass the award?,"The arbitrator shall pass a reasoned award within 45 days from the date of completion of pleadings. In exceptional circumstances, this period may be extended by the arbitrator for a maximum of 15 days with written reasons for the extension."
How can clerical mistakes in the Award be corrected?,Clerical mistakes in the Award can be corrected by the Arbitrator upon application made within 15 days of the publishing of the award in the CNICA ODR Portal.
How is the fee for the arbitration process determined and paid?,"Unless otherwise agreed, the administrative fee of CNICA and fee of the Arbitrator shall be payable by the claimant and the Respondent(s) in equal shares. 50% of the fees are to be paid by the claimant when submitting the claim statement, and the remaining 50% is to be shared equally among the respondents when submitting the Statement of Defence."
Can CNICA or the arbitrator be held liable for any act or omission in connection with the arbitration proceedings?,Neither CNICA nor the arbitrator shall be liable to a party for any act or omission in connection with any arbitration proceedings under the CNICA Rules of ODR.
Scenario: A claimant wishes to withdraw their claim after the arbitration process has begun but before the award is published. What are their options?,"The claimant may withdraw the Claim without prejudice prior to the publishing of the Award. They must submit a withdrawal request through the CNICA ODR Portal. Alternatively, if both parties agree, they can submit a joint withdrawal request, which may be with or without prejudice."
Scenario: During the arbitration process, one party realizes they need more time to submit their Statement of Defense. What should they do?,"The party should request an extension of time through the CNICA online portal before the deadline. They must state the exceptional circumstances warranting the request and specify the length of extension needed (not more than five days). The Arbitrator will then decide whether to grant the extension based on the circumstances."
Scenario: The parties have reached a settlement agreement during the arbitration process. How can they incorporate this into the proceedings?,"The parties can upload a memorandum of compromise enumerating the terms of the settlement. Both parties must file memoranda accepting the terms. If accepted by both parties, the arbitrator will, subject to its legality, pass an award on agreed terms."
What is the purpose of the CNICA Rules of ODR?,"The CNICA Rules of ODR aim to consolidate and bring into effect the provision under 29B of Arbitration and Conciliation, 1996, for online dispute resolution."
How are the CNICA Rules of ODR officially titled?,"The official title is ""CNICA Rules of Online Disputes Resolution (CNICA Rules of ODR), 2020."""
What does the term "Act" refer to in these rules?,"The term ""Act"" refers to the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 and its subsequent amendments."
What is considered an "Automated Process" under these rules?,"An ""Automated Process"" refers to the process to be followed for cases mentioned in Rule 2(a) of the CNICA Rules of ODR."
Who is considered a "Claimant" in the context of these rules?,A "Claimant" refers to a person or persons who have a claim against the respondent(s).
What is the definition of "Manual process" according to these rules?,"A ""Manual process"" means the process that is to be followed in cases falling under rule 2(b) of the CNICA Rules of ODR."
How is "party" defined in the CNICA Rules of ODR?,A "party" means either the Claimant(s) or the Respondent(s).
What does "Sign in" mean in the context of the CNICA ODR process?,"""Sign in"" refers to the process by which parties and arbitrators register themselves to create an account using a unique login and password in the secured CNICA ODR Portal, including email and mobile number verification."
What is a "Statement of Claim" (SoC) in these rules?,A "Statement of Claim" (SoC) is the initial document submitted by the Claimant outlining their case against the Respondent(s).
How is "Statement of Defence" (SoD) defined?,A "Statement of Defence" (SoD) is the document submitted by the Respondent(s) in response to the Statement of Claim.
What is a "Statement of Rejoinder" (SoR)?,"A ""Statement of Rejoinder"" (SoR) is a document that may be submitted by the Claimant in response to the Statement of Defence."
How is "Statement of Reply to Rejoinder" (SoRR) defined?,"A ""Statement of Reply to Rejoinder"" (SoRR) is a document that may be submitted by the Respondent(s) in response to the Statement of Rejoinder."
Under what circumstances do the CNICA Rules of ODR apply?,The rules apply when parties have agreed to submit their pending or future disputes to arbitration under the Rules of CNICA-ODR.
Can parties use CNICA-ODR if they've agreed to online dispute resolution but haven't specified a platform?,Yes, parties can use CNICA-ODR if they've agreed to resolve disputes through an Online Dispute Resolution process without naming a specific platform or institution.
What happens if a party deems it fit to conduct arbitration proceedings online?,If a party deems it fit to conduct arbitration proceedings online and possesses the necessary requirements, they can proceed under the CNICA Rules of ODR.
Which version of the CNICA Rules of ODR governs a particular arbitration?,The version of the CNICA Rules of ODR in effect at the time when the notice of reference of dispute to arbitration is issued by the claimant governs the proceedings.
What languages are accepted for communications in the CNICA ODR Portal?,All communications directed to the CNICA ODR Portal must be in English.
When is a communication deemed to have been received in the CNICA ODR process?,A communication is deemed to have been received on the date on which it was sent through the CNICA ODR Portal.
What must the Claimant upload when registering a dispute in the CNICA ODR Portal?,"The Claimant must upload the agreement to resolve the dispute through CNICA-ODR process and the notice of reference to arbitration to the respondent(s)."
Who determines whether a case follows the automated or manual process?,CNICA-ODR assigns the case to either the automated or manual process after reviewing the dispute resolution clause in the agreement uploaded by the claimant.
What is the time limit for submitting the Statement of Claim (SoC) in the automated process?,The Statement of Claim (SoC) must be submitted within 10 days from the date of the arbitrator accepting their appointment.
In what format should documents be filed in support of the Statement of Claim?,Documents should be filed in read-only PDF/JPG/JPEG format or other formats approved by CNICA Rules of ODR.
What is the time limit for submitting the Statement of Defense (SoD) in the automated process?,The Statement of Defense (SoD) must be submitted within 10 days of uploading the Statement of Claim (SoC).
When can a party submit a Statement of Rejoinder (SoR)?,A Statement of Rejoinder (SoR) can be submitted within 7 days of uploading the Statement of Defense (SoD).
What is the time frame for submitting a Statement of Reply to Rejoinder (SoRR)?,A Statement of Reply to Rejoinder (SoRR) must be submitted within 7 days of uploading the Statement of Rejoinder (SoR).
When are parties provided with the option to file Written Arguments?,Parties can file Written Arguments after the completion of pleadings, within the stipulated time.
What happens to the option to file documents once the time for filing written arguments is fixed?,The option to file documents ceases once the time for filing written arguments is fixed.
How can parties request an extension of time for submitting their statements?,Parties can request an extension through the CNICA online portal before the respective deadline, stating the exceptional circumstances and requested length of extension.
What is the maximum extension of time that can be granted for submitting statements?,The maximum extension that can be granted is five (5) days.
Who determines if circumstances warrant granting an extension?,The Arbitrator, in their sole discretion, determines if circumstances warrant granting an extension.
How does the time frame differ between automated and manual processes?,The time schedule for the automated process is fixed as per rules 5 to 10, while in the manual process, the arbitrator has discretion in setting and extending deadlines.
What constitutes the complete record to be considered by the Arbitrator?,"The complete record includes the Statement of Claim, Statement of Defense, Statement of Rejoinder, Statement of Reply to Rejoinder, Written Arguments, and all documents filed by both parties through the CNICA online Portal."
How long does CNICA have to appoint an Arbitrator after a dispute is registered?,CNICA will appoint an Arbitrator within 3 days from the date of registration of the dispute.
What must the appointed arbitrator submit after being notified of their appointment?,"The arbitrator must submit a statement of acceptance and disclosures as required under law within 3 days of being notified of their appointment."
What happens if an appointed arbitrator doesn't respond within the stipulated time?,If an arbitrator doesn't respond within 3 days or expresses ineligibility, CNICA has an additional 3 days to appoint a new arbitrator.
What are some circumstances that could disqualify an Arbitrator?,"An Arbitrator could be disqualified for personal bias, having served as an attorney to a party, having a direct financial interest in the matter, or being closely related to a party in the proceeding."
Can a party challenge the appointment of an Arbitrator?,Yes, a party can challenge the appointment of an Arbitrator by filing a written request stating the circumstances and specific reasons for disqualification.
Is there a time limit for challenging an Arbitrator's appointment?,A party can challenge an Arbitrator's appointment at any time before the award is published.
Who reviews challenges to an Arbitrator's appointment?,The Arbitrator promptly reviews the challenge themselves and determines whether circumstances exist requiring their disqualification.
Can the Arbitrator's decision on a disqualification challenge be appealed?,No, the Arbitrator's decision on a disqualification challenge is not subject to appeal.
Are in-person hearings allowed under the CNICA Rules of ODR?,"Generally, there are no in-person hearings, but the arbitrator may allow them in exceptional circumstances upon specific request."
Who bears the cost of an in-person hearing if one is granted?,The cost for an in-person hearing is borne by the party seeking such a facility.
Can a Claimant withdraw their claim after initiating the arbitration process?,Yes, a Claimant can withdraw their claim without prejudice prior to the publishing of the Award.
How should a withdrawal request be submitted?,A withdrawal request must be submitted through the CNICA ODR Portal.
Can both parties jointly request to withdraw a claim?,Yes, both parties can make a joint request to withdraw a claim, either with or without prejudice.
What happens if the parties reach a settlement during the arbitration process?,"If parties reach a settlement, they can upload a memorandum of compromise outlining the terms, which the arbitrator can incorporate into an award on agreed terms."
Can a claim be withdrawn after the Award is published?,No, a claim cannot be withdrawn after the Award is published.
Are parties allowed to file applications for interim measures?,Yes, parties are entitled to file applications for interim measures as permitted under law.
How should applications for interim measures be filed?,"Applications for interim measures should be filed in the field specifically provided in the CNICA-ODR platform, in read-only format."
What types of orders can an arbitrator pass regarding interim measures?,"An arbitrator can pass suitable orders including ad interim orders, interim orders, and other orders as provided under the Act."
Within what timeframe should an arbitrator pass the final award?,"An arbitrator should pass the final award within 45 days from the date of completion of pleadings, with a possible 15-day extension in exceptional circumstances."
What kind of award should the arbitrator pass?,The arbitrator shall pass a reasoned award.
Can clerical mistakes in an award be corrected?,Yes, clerical mistakes or errors in the Award arising from oversight or omission can be corrected by the Arbitrator.
What is the time limit for requesting correction of clerical mistakes in an award?,Requests for correction of clerical mistakes must be made within 15 days of the publishing of the award in the CNICA ODR Portal.
How long does an arbitrator have to dispose of a request for correction of clerical mistakes?,The arbitrator shall dispose of such requests within 7 days of the request being made.
How is the award published to the parties?,CNICA will publish the Award via electronic transmission to the parties.
How are the fees for the arbitration process typically split between parties?,"Unless otherwise agreed, the administrative fee of CNICA and fee of the Arbitrator shall be payable by the claimant and the Respondent(s) in equal shares."
When is the claimant required to pay their portion of the fees?,The claimant is required to pay 50% of the fees at the time of submitting the claim statement.
When are the respondent(s) required to pay their portion of the fees?,The respondent(s) are required to pay their share (50% of the remaining fees) at the time of submitting the Statement of Defence.
What happens if a respondent is not willing to pay their share of the fees?,"If a respondent is not willing to pay, the claimant shall have to pay the balance immediately thereafter."
Can CNICA fix fees and administrative expenses on a case-by-case basis?,Yes, CNICA is entitled to fix the fees and administrative expenses on a case-by-case basis.
Are the arbitration fees inclusive or exclusive of Goods and Service Tax (GST)?,"The fees and administrative expenses are exclusive of GST, which is applicable and must be paid in addition."
How do parties confirm the authenticity of their submissions?,By submitting forms or uploading statements and documents, parties confirm their authenticity and truth.
Is a physical signature required on documents submitted through the CNICA ODR Portal?,"No, submission through the portal is deemed as signing the document and solemnly verifying the statements made therein."
Can CNICA or the arbitrator be held liable for acts or omissions in connection with the arbitration proceedings?,Neither CNICA nor the arbitrator shall be liable to a party for any act or omission in connection with any arbitration proceedings under the CNICA Rules of ODR.
Can the CNICA Rules of ODR be amended?,Yes, the CNICA Rules of ODR may be amended from time to time by CNICA in its sole discretion.
Scenario: A party realizes they have submitted incorrect information in their Statement of Claim. What should they do?,"They should immediately notify the CNICA ODR Portal and the arbitrator, requesting permission to amend their Statement of Claim. The arbitrator will decide whether to allow the amendment, considering factors such as timing and potential prejudice to the other party."
Scenario: The appointed arbitrator falls ill during the proceedings and is unable to continue. What happens next?,"CNICA would need to appoint a new arbitrator following the same process as the initial appointment. The new arbitrator would need to decide, in consultation with the parties, whether to continue the proceedings from where they left off or to start anew."
Scenario: A technical glitch prevents a party from uploading their Statement of Defence within the deadline. How should they proceed?,"The party should immediately contact CNICA support and document the technical issue. They should also notify the arbitrator and request an extension due to the technical difficulties. The arbitrator may grant an extension if satisfied with the explanation."
Scenario: The parties wish to add a new issue to the arbitration after the initial submissions. Is this allowed?,"The parties would need to make a joint request to the arbitrator to expand the scope of the arbitration. The arbitrator would consider factors such as the stage of proceedings, potential delays, and the relevance of the new issue before deciding whether to allow it."
Scenario: A third party wishes to join the arbitration proceedings. What is the process for this?,"The third party would need to make an application to the arbitrator through the CNICA ODR Portal. The existing parties would be given an opportunity to comment on the application. The arbitrator would then decide whether to allow the joinder based on the relevance of the third party's interest and the potential impact on the proceedings."
Scenario: The claimant wishes to withdraw their claim, but the respondent objects. What happens in this situation?,"The arbitrator would need to consider both parties' positions. If the respondent has a legitimate interest in obtaining a final decision on the merits, the arbitrator might deny the withdrawal request and continue with the proceedings."
Scenario: The parties disagree on the interpretation of a key term in their contract. How would this be resolved in the CNICA ODR process?,"The arbitrator would consider the arguments presented by both parties regarding the interpretation of the term. They may request additional submissions on this specific issue if necessary. The arbitrator's interpretation would then be reflected in the final award."
Scenario: After the award is published, a party discovers new evidence that could have significantly influenced the outcome. What options do they have?,"The options are limited once the award is published. The party could potentially seek to have the award set aside in court if the new evidence meets the strict criteria for doing so under the applicable law. However, this would be a separate legal process outside of the CNICA ODR rules."
Scenario: The parties reach a partial settlement during the arbitration but wish to continue the process for the remaining issues. How is this handled?,"The parties should inform the arbitrator of the partial settlement. The arbitrator can then issue a partial award on the settled issues and continue the arbitration process for the remaining disputed matters, adjusting the scope of the proceedings accordingly."
Scenario: An arbitrator realizes they may have a conflict of interest after accepting the appointment. What should they do?,"The arbitrator should immediately disclose the potential conflict of interest to the parties through the CNICA ODR Portal. The parties would then have an opportunity to comment or object. If either party objects, the arbitrator should recuse themselves, and CNICA would appoint a new arbitrator."
What is the full name of the CNICA Rules of ODR?,The full name is "CNICA Rules of Online Disputes Resolution (CNICA Rules of ODR), 2020".
When did the CNICA Rules of ODR come into effect?,The CNICA Rules of ODR came into effect on 01.01.2023.
What does CNICA stand for?,CNICA stands for Council for National and International Commercial Arbitration.
Under which act was CNICA formed?,CNICA was formed under the aegis of the Trust for Alternative Disputes Resolution, registered under the Indian Trust Act.
What is the primary purpose of the CNICA Rules of ODR?,The primary purpose is to consolidate and bring into effect the provision under 29B of Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 for online dispute resolution.
How are "Address" and "Log in" different in the context of CNICA Rules?,An "Address" refers to electronic contact information, while "Log in" is the process of entering the CNICA ODR Portal using verified credentials.
What formats are acceptable for document submission in the CNICA ODR process?,Documents should be submitted in read-only PDF, JPG, or JPEG format, or other formats approved by CNICA Rules of ODR.
What is the time limit for submitting a Statement of Claim (SoC)?,The Statement of Claim must be submitted within 10 days from the date of the arbitrator accepting their appointment.
How long does a respondent have to submit their Statement of Defense (SoD)?,The respondent has 10 days from the uploading of the Statement of Claim to submit their Statement of Defense.
What is the maximum file size allowed for document submissions?,The CNICA-ODR Portal sets forth file size restrictions, which may be updated from time to time.
How can a party request an extension for submitting their statement?,A party can request an extension through the CNICA online portal before the deadline, stating the exceptional circumstances and requested length of extension.
What is the maximum extension time that can be granted?,The maximum extension that can be granted is 5 days.
Who decides whether to grant an extension request?,The Arbitrator, in their sole discretion, determines whether to grant an extension based on the circumstances.
What happens if an arbitrator doesn't respond to their appointment within the stipulated time?,If an arbitrator doesn't respond within 3 days, CNICA has an additional 3 days to appoint a new arbitrator.
Can parties challenge the appointment of an arbitrator?,Yes, parties can challenge the appointment of an arbitrator by filing a written request stating the circumstances and reasons for disqualification.
Is there a time limit for challenging an arbitrator's appointment?,A party can challenge an arbitrator's appointment any time before the award is published.
Who reviews challenges to an arbitrator's appointment?,The arbitrator themselves reviews the challenge and determines whether circumstances exist requiring their disqualification.
Can the arbitrator's decision on a disqualification challenge be appealed?,No, the arbitrator's decision on a disqualification challenge is not subject to appeal.
Are in-person hearings allowed under the CNICA Rules of ODR?,Generally, there are no in-person hearings, but the arbitrator may allow them in exceptional circumstances upon specific request.
Who bears the cost of an in-person hearing if one is granted?,The cost for an in-person hearing is borne by the party seeking such a facility.
Can a claimant withdraw their claim after initiating the arbitration process?,Yes, a claimant can withdraw their claim without prejudice prior to the publishing of the Award.
How should a withdrawal request be submitted?,A withdrawal request must be submitted through the CNICA ODR Portal.
Can both parties jointly request to withdraw a claim?,Yes, both parties can make a joint request to withdraw a claim, either with or without prejudice.
What happens if the parties reach a settlement during the arbitration process?,If parties reach a settlement, they can upload a memorandum of compromise outlining the terms, which the arbitrator can incorporate into an award on agreed terms.
Can a claim be withdrawn after the Award is published?,No, a claim cannot be withdrawn after the Award is published.
Are parties allowed to file applications for interim measures?,Yes, parties are entitled to file applications for interim measures as permitted under law.
How should applications for interim measures be filed?,Applications for interim measures should be filed in the field specifically provided in the CNICA-ODR platform, in read-only format.
What types of orders can an arbitrator pass regarding interim measures?,An arbitrator can pass suitable orders including ad interim orders, interim orders, and other orders as provided under the Act.
Within what timeframe should an arbitrator pass the final award?,An arbitrator should pass the final award within 45 days from the date of completion of pleadings, with a possible 15-day extension in exceptional circumstances.
What kind of award should the arbitrator pass?,The arbitrator shall pass a reasoned award.
Can clerical mistakes in an award be corrected?,Yes, clerical mistakes or errors in the Award arising from oversight or omission can be corrected by the Arbitrator.
What is the time limit for requesting correction of clerical mistakes in an award?,Requests for correction of clerical mistakes must be made within 15 days of the publishing of the award in the CNICA ODR Portal.
How long does an arbitrator have to dispose of a request for correction of clerical mistakes?,The arbitrator shall dispose of such requests within 7 days of the request being made.
How is the award published to the parties?,CNICA will publish the Award via electronic transmission to the parties.
How are the fees for the arbitration process typically split between parties?,"Unless otherwise agreed, the administrative fee of CNICA and fee of the Arbitrator shall be payable by the claimant and the Respondent(s) in equal shares."
When is the claimant required to pay their portion of the fees?,The claimant is required to pay 50% of the fees at the time of submitting the claim statement.
When are the respondent(s) required to pay their portion of the fees?,The respondent(s) are required to pay their share (50% of the remaining fees) at the time of submitting the Statement of Defence.
What happens if a respondent is not willing to pay their share of the fees?,If a respondent is not willing to pay, the claimant shall have to pay the balance immediately thereafter.
Can CNICA fix fees and administrative expenses on a case-by-case basis?,Yes, CNICA is entitled to fix the fees and administrative expenses on a case-by-case basis.
Are the arbitration fees inclusive or exclusive of Goods and Service Tax (GST)?,The fees and administrative expenses are exclusive of GST, which is applicable and must be paid in addition.
How do parties confirm the authenticity of their submissions?,By submitting forms or uploading statements and documents, parties confirm their authenticity and truth.
Is a physical signature required on documents submitted through the CNICA ODR Portal?,"No, submission through the portal is deemed as signing the document and solemnly verifying the statements made therein."
Can CNICA or the arbitrator be held liable for acts or omissions in connection with the arbitration proceedings?,Neither CNICA nor the arbitrator shall be liable to a party for any act or omission in connection with any arbitration proceedings under the CNICA Rules of ODR.
Can the CNICA Rules of ODR be amended?,Yes, the CNICA Rules of ODR may be amended from time to time by CNICA in its sole discretion.
What is the Juridical Seat for disputes under CNICA Rules of ODR?,The Juridical Seat is Chennai, situated in the State of Tamil Nadu, India.
In what language should all communications be made to the CNICA ODR Portal?,All communications should be made in English.
What does the term "party" mean in the context of these rules?,A "party" means either the Claimant(s) or the Respondent(s).
How is "Automated Process" defined in the CNICA Rules of ODR?,An "Automated Process" means the process to be followed for cases mentioned in Rule 2(a).
What is a "Manual process" according to these rules?,A "Manual process" means the process that is to be followed in cases falling under Rule 2(b).
What does SoC stand for in these rules?,SoC stands for Statement of Claim.
What does SoD stand for in these rules?,SoD stands for Statement of Defence.
What does SoR stand for in these rules?,SoR stands for Statement of Rejoinder.
What does SoRR stand for in these rules?,SoRR stands for Statement of Reply to Rejoinder.
What is the time limit for submitting a Statement of Rejoinder (SoR)?,A Statement of Rejoinder must be submitted within 7 days of uploading the Statement of Defense.
What is the time limit for submitting a Statement of Reply to Rejoinder (SoRR)?,A Statement of Reply to Rejoinder must be submitted within 7 days of uploading the Statement of Rejoinder.
When are parties provided with the option to file Written Arguments?,Parties can file Written Arguments after the completion of pleadings, within the stipulated time.
What happens to the option to file documents once the time for filing written arguments is fixed?,The option to file documents ceases once the time for filing written arguments is fixed.
How long does CNICA have to appoint an Arbitrator after a dispute is registered?,CNICA will appoint an Arbitrator within 3 days from the date of registration of the dispute.
What must the appointed arbitrator submit after being notified of their appointment?,The arbitrator must submit a statement of acceptance and disclosures as required under law within 3 days of being notified of their appointment.
What are some circumstances that could disqualify an Arbitrator?,"An Arbitrator could be disqualified for personal bias, having served as an attorney to a party, having a direct financial interest in the matter, or being closely related to a party in the proceeding."
Scenario: A party realizes they have submitted incorrect information in their Statement of Claim. What should they do?,"They should immediately notify the CNICA ODR Portal and the arbitrator, requesting permission to amend their Statement of Claim. The arbitrator will decide whether to allow the amendment, considering factors such as timing and potential prejudice to the other party."
Scenario: The appointed arbitrator falls ill during the proceedings and is unable to continue. What happens next?,"CNICA would need to appoint a new arbitrator following the same process as the initial appointment. The new arbitrator would need to decide, in consultation with the parties, whether to continue the proceedings from where they left off or to start anew."
Scenario: A technical glitch prevents a party from uploading their Statement of Defence within the deadline. How should they proceed?,"The party should immediately contact CNICA support and document the technical issue. They should also notify the arbitrator and request an extension due to the technical difficulties. The arbitrator may grant an extension if satisfied with the explanation."
Scenario: The parties wish to add a new issue to the arbitration after the initial submissions. Is this allowed?,"The parties would need to make a joint request to the arbitrator to expand the scope of the arbitration. The arbitrator would consider factors such as the stage of proceedings, potential delays, and the relevance of the new issue before deciding whether to allow it."
Scenario: A third party wishes to join the arbitration proceedings. What is the process for this?,"The third party would need to make an application to the arbitrator through the CNICA ODR Portal. The existing parties would be given an opportunity to comment on the application. The arbitrator would then decide whether to allow the joinder based on the relevance of the third party's interest and the potential impact on the proceedings."
Scenario: The claimant wishes to withdraw their claim, but the respondent objects. What happens in this situation?,"The arbitrator would need to consider both parties' positions. If the respondent has a legitimate interest in obtaining a final decision on the merits, the arbitrator might deny the withdrawal request and continue with the proceedings."
Scenario: The parties disagree on the interpretation of a key term in their contract. How would this be resolved in the CNICA ODR process?,"The arbitrator would consider the arguments presented by both parties regarding the interpretation of the term. They may request additional submissions on this specific issue if necessary. The arbitrator's interpretation would then be reflected in the final award."
Scenario: After the award is published, a party discovers new evidence that could have significantly influenced the outcome. What options do they have?,"The options are limited once the award is published. The party could potentially seek to have the award set aside in court if the new evidence meets the strict criteria for doing so under the applicable law. However, this would be a separate legal process outside of the CNICA ODR rules."
Scenario: The parties reach a partial settlement during the arbitration but wish to continue the process for the remaining issues. How is this handled?,"The parties should inform the arbitrator of the partial settlement. The arbitrator can then issue a partial award on the settled issues and continue the arbitration process for the remaining disputed matters, adjusting the scope of the proceedings accordingly."
Scenario: An arbitrator realizes they may have a conflict of interest after accepting the appointment. What should they do?,"The arbitrator should immediately disclose the potential conflict of interest to the parties through the CNICA ODR Portal. The parties would then have an opportunity to comment or object. If either party objects, the arbitrator should recuse themselves, and CNICA would appoint a new arbitrator."
What is the purpose of the 'Sign in' process in the CNICA ODR Portal?,The 'Sign in' process is used to register and verify the email and mobile number of the Claimant, Respondent(s), and Arbitrator.
How does the 'Log in' process differ from the 'Sign in' process?,The 'Log in' process is used to enter the CNICA ODR Portal using the credentials verified during the 'Sign in' process.
What information must be included in the notice of reference to arbitration?,The notice should include details of the dispute and the intention to resolve it through CNICA-ODR process.
Who determines whether a case follows the automated or manual process?,CNICA-ODR assigns the case to either process after reviewing the dispute resolution clause in the agreement uploaded by the claimant.
What happens if the arbitrator does not submit their statement of acceptance within the given timeframe?,If the arbitrator doesn't respond within 3 days, CNICA has an additional 3 days to appoint a new arbitrator.
Can parties submit documents after the time for filing written arguments is fixed?,No, the option to file documents ceases once the time for filing written arguments is fixed.
What factors does an arbitrator consider when deciding whether to grant an extension?,The arbitrator considers the exceptional circumstances stated in the request and the potential impact on the proceedings.
Is there a limit to how many times a party can request an extension?,The rules don't specify a limit, but repeated requests might be viewed unfavorably by the arbitrator.
Can the arbitrator initiate an in-person hearing without a request from the parties?,No, in-person hearings are only considered upon a specific request made by either of the parties.
Who bears the cost if the arbitrator calls for a personal hearing?,The fee for personal hearing is fixed and shared by the parties equally.
Can a party appeal the arbitrator's decision on whether to hold an in-person hearing?,The rules don't provide for an appeal of this decision, as it's at the arbitrator's discretion.
What happens if a party refuses to participate in an in-person hearing?,The arbitrator may proceed with the hearing and draw inferences from the party's absence.
Can a party withdraw their claim after the other party has submitted their Statement of Defence?,Yes, a party can withdraw their claim at any time before the award is published.
What happens if both parties want to withdraw the claim, but disagree on whether it should be with or without prejudice?,The arbitrator would need to decide based on the circumstances and the reasons provided by both parties.
Can a party modify their claim after submitting the Statement of Claim?,A party would need to request permission from the arbitrator to modify their claim, which may be granted depending on the circumstances and timing.
What happens if a party discovers new evidence after submitting their Statement of Claim or Defence?,The party should immediately inform the arbitrator and request permission to submit the new evidence.
Can the arbitrator consider issues not raised in the initial Statement of Claim?,Generally, the arbitrator focuses on the issues raised in the initial claim, but may consider new issues if both parties agree or if it's necessary for a fair resolution.
What happens if the claimant fails to submit their Statement of Claim within the given timeframe?,The arbitrator may terminate the proceedings or give additional time depending on the circumstances.
Can a party request oral hearings instead of submitting written arguments?,The rules prioritize written submissions, but a party could request oral hearings, which the arbitrator may grant in exceptional circumstances.
What happens if a party fails to pay their share of the arbitration fees?,If a respondent fails to pay, the claimant must pay the full amount for the arbitration to proceed.
Can CNICA refuse to administer an arbitration under these rules?,CNICA retains the right to refuse administration of an arbitration if it determines the dispute is not suitable for its ODR process.
What happens if the parties' arbitration agreement specifies different rules than the CNICA Rules of ODR?,The CNICA Rules of ODR would apply if the parties have specifically agreed to use them, overriding any conflicting provisions in their original agreement.
What is the significance of the preamble in the CNICA Rules of ODR?,"The preamble states that these rules aim to consolidate and bring into effect the provision under 29B of Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996, establishing their legal basis and purpose."
How often can the CNICA Rules of ODR be amended?,"The rules can be amended from time to time by CNICA in its sole discretion, allowing for updates as needed to improve the ODR process."
What qualifications must an Arbitrator possess according to the CNICA Rules of ODR?,"An Arbitrator must be computer-savvy, possess knowledge in law and practice, have a high sense of professional ethics, and be capable of entering independent and unbiased decisions."
How is the 'Automated Process' different from the 'Manual Process' in these rules?,"The Automated Process follows fixed timelines as outlined in rules 5 to 10, while the Manual Process allows the arbitrator discretion in setting and extending deadlines."
What role does the 'Juridical Seat' play in the CNICA ODR process?,"The Juridical Seat, which is Chennai in Tamil Nadu, India, determines the legal jurisdiction for all disputes agreed to be resolved under CNICA Rules of ODR."
Can parties choose a different Juridical Seat other than Chennai?,"No, the rules specify Chennai as the Juridical Seat for all disputes under CNICA Rules of ODR, and this cannot be changed by the parties."
What is the purpose of the 'Sign in' process in the CNICA ODR Portal?,"The 'Sign in' process allows parties and arbitrators to create unique accounts, verify their email and mobile number, ensuring secure access to the ODR process."
How does the CNICA ODR Portal ensure the security of communications?,"The portal uses secure login credentials and requires email and mobile verification, ensuring that only authorized parties can access the arbitration proceedings."
What happens if a party forgets their login credentials for the CNICA ODR Portal?,"While not explicitly stated in the rules, it's likely that the party would need to contact CNICA support to reset their credentials, ensuring continued access to the proceedings."
Can parties use representatives or lawyers in the CNICA ODR process?,"While not explicitly mentioned, parties are likely allowed to use representatives or lawyers, as this is a common practice in arbitration proceedings."
What happens if a party fails to submit their Statement of Defense within the given timeframe?,"The rules don't specify, but typically, the arbitration would proceed based on the available information, potentially disadvantaging the party that failed to submit their defense."
Is there a word limit for the Statement of Claim or Statement of Defense?,"The rules don't specify a word limit, but parties should aim for concise yet comprehensive statements to facilitate efficient proceedings."
Can new evidence be introduced after the initial submission of documents?,"The rules don't explicitly address this, but typically, the introduction of new evidence would be at the discretion of the arbitrator, considering factors like relevance and timeliness."
How are multi-party disputes handled under the CNICA Rules of ODR?,"While not explicitly addressed, multi-party disputes would likely follow the same general procedures, with each party having equal opportunity to present their case."
What happens if there's a discrepancy between the CNICA Rules of ODR and the arbitration clause in the parties' contract?,"Generally, the specific agreement between the parties would prevail, but they may need to seek clarification from the arbitrator or CNICA in case of significant discrepancies."
Can the arbitrator order interim measures ex parte?,"While not explicitly stated, the arbitrator likely has the power to order ex parte interim measures in urgent situations, subject to later review with both parties."
How are costs other than arbitrator fees and administrative expenses handled?,"The rules don't specify, but typically, the arbitrator would have the power to allocate other costs (like legal fees) between the parties in the final award."
Is there a process for expedited proceedings under the CNICA Rules of ODR?,"The rules don't mention an expedited process, but parties could potentially agree to shortened timelines with the arbitrator's approval."
Can the arbitrator appoint experts to assist in technical matters?,"While not explicitly mentioned, arbitrators typically have this power, and could likely do so under CNICA Rules if necessary for resolving the dispute."
How are challenges to the jurisdiction of the arbitrator handled?,"The rules don't specify, but typically, the arbitrator would have the power to rule on their own jurisdiction, subject to later court review if necessary."
What happens if a party refuses to participate in the arbitration proceedings?,"While not explicitly addressed, the arbitration would likely proceed ex parte, with the arbitrator making a decision based on the available information."
Can the arbitrator issue partial awards during the proceedings?,"The rules don't explicitly mention partial awards, but arbitrators typically have this power to resolve certain issues before the final award."
How are arithmetic errors in the award corrected?,"Arithmetic errors would likely be treated as clerical mistakes, which can be corrected by the arbitrator upon application within 15 days of the award's publication."
Can the arbitrator interpret or supplement the award after it has been issued?,"The rules don't explicitly allow for this, but the arbitrator may have limited power to interpret or supplement the award if requested by a party."
What happens if the appointed arbitrator becomes unable to perform their duties during the proceedings?,"While not explicitly addressed, CNICA would likely appoint a replacement arbitrator following the same process as the initial appointment."
Can the parties agree to modify the CNICA Rules of ODR for their specific dispute?,"The rules don't explicitly allow for this, but parties might be able to agree on certain modifications, subject to the arbitrator's and CNICA's approval."
How are issues of document translation handled in the CNICA ODR process?,"While not explicitly addressed, parties would likely need to provide translations of any documents not in English, as English is the specified language for communications."
Can the arbitrator order the production of documents from the parties?,"While not explicitly mentioned, arbitrators typically have this power, and could likely do so under CNICA Rules if necessary for resolving the dispute."
How is the confidentiality of the arbitration proceedings ensured?,"While not explicitly addressed in the provided rules, arbitration proceedings are typically confidential, and this likely applies to CNICA ODR proceedings as well."
What happens if there's a conflict between the CNICA Rules of ODR and mandatory provisions of applicable law?,"While not explicitly stated, mandatory provisions of applicable law would likely prevail over the CNICA Rules in case of conflict."
Can the arbitrator issue dissenting opinions if there's more than one arbitrator?,"The rules seem to imply a single arbitrator system, but if multiple arbitrators were appointed, dissenting opinions could potentially be issued."
How are issues of applicable law determined in CNICA ODR proceedings?,"While not explicitly addressed, the arbitrator would likely determine the applicable law based on the parties' agreement or relevant conflict of laws rules."
Can the arbitrator order security for costs?,"While not explicitly mentioned, arbitrators typically have this power, and could likely do so under CNICA Rules if deemed necessary."
How are issues of interest on awarded amounts handled?,"The rules don't specify, but the arbitrator would likely have the power to award interest as part of the final award, based on applicable law or the parties' agreement."
Can the arbitrator issue an award in a currency other than Indian Rupees?,"While not explicitly addressed, the arbitrator likely has the discretion to issue awards in other currencies if appropriate to the dispute."
How are issues of set-off and counterclaims handled in CNICA ODR proceedings?,"While not explicitly mentioned, set-off and counterclaims would likely be allowed and handled as part of the main proceedings, subject to the arbitrator's directions."
Can the arbitrator order specific performance as a remedy?,"While not explicitly mentioned, arbitrators typically have broad discretion in fashioning remedies, including specific performance if appropriate and legally possible."
How are issues of privilege and legal professional privilege addressed?,"While not explicitly addressed, issues of privilege would likely be determined by the arbitrator based on applicable law and general principles of arbitration."
Can the arbitrator issue anti-suit injunctions?,"The rules don't explicitly address this, but arbitrators may have the power to issue anti-suit injunctions if necessary to protect the arbitration process."
How are issues of res judicata and lis pendens handled in CNICA ODR proceedings?,"While not explicitly addressed, these legal principles would likely be applied by the arbitrator if raised by a party, based on applicable law."
Can the arbitrator consolidate separate arbitration proceedings?,"The rules don't explicitly allow for this, but consolidation might be possible with the agreement of all parties involved and CNICA's approval."
How are issues of burden of proof determined in CNICA ODR proceedings?,"While not explicitly addressed, general principles of burden of proof in arbitration would likely apply, with each party bearing the burden of proving the facts they rely on."
Can the arbitrator issue provisional awards?,"While not explicitly mentioned, arbitrators typically have the power to issue provisional awards, and this likely applies under CNICA Rules as well."
How are issues of waiver of right to object handled?,"While not explicitly addressed, parties would likely be deemed to have waived their right to object if they proceed with the arbitration without stating their objection promptly."
Can the arbitrator correct errors in the award on their own initiative?,"The rules allow for correction of clerical mistakes, but don't specify if the arbitrator can do this on their own initiative or only upon party request."
How are issues of arbitrator immunity handled?,"The rules state that neither CNICA nor the arbitrator shall be liable for acts or omissions in connection with the arbitration proceedings, providing immunity."
Can the parties agree to waive their right to seek annulment of the award?,"While not explicitly addressed, parties generally cannot waive all rights to seek annulment, as some grounds for annulment are considered matters of public policy."
How are issues of unconscionability or unfair contract terms addressed?,"While not explicitly mentioned, the arbitrator would likely have the power to consider issues of unconscionability or unfair terms if raised by a party."
Can the arbitrator adapt the contract in light of changed circumstances?,"The rules don't explicitly address this, but arbitrators may have this power if provided for in the parties' agreement or applicable law."
How are issues of force majeure handled in CNICA ODR proceedings?,"While not explicitly addressed, force majeure issues would likely be considered by the arbitrator based on the parties' contract and applicable law."
Scenario: A party claims that a document crucial to their case was accidentally deleted from their computer. How should they proceed?,"They should immediately inform the arbitrator and the other party through the CNICA ODR Portal, explaining the situation and requesting permission to submit a replacement copy if available. The arbitrator would decide how to proceed, possibly allowing the submission with an explanation of its provenance."
Scenario: The parties realize that a key contract term is ambiguous and disagree on its interpretation. How might this be resolved?,"The arbitrator would likely allow both parties to submit arguments on their interpretation of the ambiguous term. The arbitrator would then interpret the term based on contract interpretation principles, the parties' intentions, and any relevant evidence presented."
Scenario: A witness becomes unavailable due to serious illness after the Statement of Claim is filed. What options does the party have?,"The party should notify the arbitrator and the other party promptly. They might request to submit a written statement from the witness if possible, or ask for an extension to find an alternative witness. The arbitrator would decide how to proceed, balancing fairness and the need for efficient proceedings."
